Met with
Israeli President Isaac Herzog t
What can you tell us about your
and what was discussed
Well,
we discussed
the current state of the war.
We discussed American involvemen
and support.
We discussed the situation
with the hostages that are being
And we talked about the atrociti
that I've been able to see first
during my visit here today.
And you've also been meeting wit
as I understand, some survivors
and family of those affected
as well, right?
Yeah, I met with I met with two
one young woman, 23 years old,
shot in the bomb shelter who sur
only because she was
covered by other dead bodies.
Yeah,
I met with two families of hosta
today.
I have this dog tag for that 19
old young man
who this family I met with tonig
His his father has
spent time in New Jersey,
lived in New Jersey for a long t
And, you know, those folks are s
There was suffering there for 37
not knowing
if their loved ones are alive or
not knowing if they're being car
It's a it's an extra ordinary si
Yeah.
We just
we just spoke to a brother of so
or someone who has a brother
that is currently being held hos
And he talked about
how difficult
it has been up to this point.
Now, look,
we are in the middle of this con
and the fighting right now.
But today on CNN,
Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu,
as far as solutions
for post
fighting, push
back on the idea
of the Palestinian Authority run
and said any solution,
we need to have an overriding
and overreaching Israeli
military envelope.
Do you agree
with Prime Minister Netanyahu's
assessment there?
I mean, what
what do you propose
or think is going to happen here
I think it's too
early to make that determination
I understand that the prime mini
is focused exclusively now on th
on degrading Hamas's ability
to ever do this again,
protecting the territorial integ
and the safety and security
of the people of Israel.
But, look,
I don't see any long line of fol
looking to volunteer to take ove
from Hamas.
This is,
I think, going to be
a diplomatic solution
that's going to need to be come
by all the interested parties
at a time
when the war is finally conclude
But first and foremost,
you have to protect the safety
and security of the people of Is
And you have to degrade Hamas
because Hamas and believe me,
I spent today spending 40 minute
watching a video
of the atrocities that were comm
by Hamas that day.
And I will tell you what
struck me the most, Omar.
It wasn't just the inhumanity
of what they were doing
Chopping off heads, burning peop
But it was the joy they took in
They have video of one terrorist
calling his mother
saying your your son killed ten
with his own hands.
Your son's a hero.
As long as there are folks like
in Hamas who are focused on wipi
Israel off the map
and killing the Jewish people.
Discussion of what happens in Ga
after the war
has to take a backseat at the mo
to eliminating Hamas's ability
to threaten the lives
of the people of Israel.
Again, And so,
you know, the prime
minister will have a lot of time
to think about
the postwar period when it comes
But I think right now,
task one is making sure that Ham
has capabilities degraded
and protecting the safety
and security of the Israeli peop
And that's among
one of the multiple dynamics
going on right now.
Of course,
there's a military campaign to
to weed out and eliminate
Hamas on the side of the IDF,
but also
trying to rescue some of these h
I want to go back to a little bi
After October 7th,
you said
less a little less than two week
after the October 7th attack.
You said providing aid to civili
in Gaza was a very, very low pri
and that the focus
at that point needed to be on mi
and financially helping Israel.
Obviously,
since then, we've seen
a level of civilians
killed by the thousands up to th
Do you still believe
humanitarian aid is a low priori
in comparison to
the Israeli military's needs?
I still believe that, yes.
I think if you're prioritizing
those things, Omar,
the most important thing
is for us to provide
financial assistance
and military
hardware to the Israelis
so they can
do what they need to do in Gaza
regarding the terrorists
who attacked them
and killed over 1200 of their ci
Now, no one likes civilian
deaths of anyone,
whether it's Israeli or Palestin
But let's remember this.
Two things.
First,
there was a cease fire
on October 6th, Omar,
and it was Hamas
that broke
that cease fire
with their attacks on October 7t
And secondly,
Israel has done
much to try to get Palestinians
from the area
where the battle
is going to be
to the southern part of Gaza.
It is Hamas
that is refusing
to let many of those people
go to the southern part of Gaza
because they want to use them
as human shields.
I believe that the that Hamas ca
about Palestinian civilian life
than Israel does.
And so,
you know,
Hamas has to take responsibility
for this.
They could be helping
their civilians significantly.
And we saw a report just today
that Israel said fuel
to run the Al-Shifa hospital
and that Hamas refused to accept
You can't
complain about not
being able to run the incubators
and the life
support systems at a hospital
and then turn down fuel
that's being sent by the Israeli
to be able to work
those those pieces of equipment.
So Hamas is the hypocrite here.
And that's why
I think
the top priority has to be aidin
so that we can put an end to thi
as quickly as possible.
And this this topic was posed to
Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu when he was on our air
a little bit earlier
today on the topic
of whether they've been doing en
to protect
some of the civilians
that have been killed
or at least minimize
the civilians that were killed.
Take a listen to what he told Da
We're trying
to minimize civilian casualties
as a result of our ground action
I think the number of civilian c
is actually being reduced
because people are heeding our c
to leave the area
and defying
Hamas's attempt to keep them the
And we'll do everything in our p
to do that.
Now, even with that, Secretary o
Antony Blinken
has said far too
many Palestinians have been kill
Do you agree
with the secretary of state ther
Well, I think that any loss of c
life is tragic
and should be avoided at all cos
But, Omar, we need to make sure
that Hamas cannot use these civi
as a shield
to prevent them
from having their military
capability degraded.
They've shown on October 7th,
in the days afterwards
that they will use missiles.
They will come by air, sea and l
in an attempt to kill Israeli ci
And we can't permit that
to continue to happen.
Omar, so,
you know, this is
this is always very, very diffic
But I do believe that Israel
is trying to do everything
it can
to avoid the loss of civilian li
both in Gaza and in Israel.
Now, here in the U.S.,
obviously, there's a budget figh
that's it's really just beginnin
as we head towards a government
But as far as the plan that was
the bills don't provide
any funding for Israel or Ukrain
Which you've also visited
over the course of this past yea
What message do you believe, aga
not the final version, but still
what message do you believe
that these initial versions send
our foreign allies
Not a good one.
Omar.
And I think that candidly,
we have to continue to play the
the world we've always played,
because if we don't,
the evil forces
will fill in our vacuum that we
And I mean China, Russia,
Iran and North Korea.
And let me tell you,
when I went to a military instal
today, installation here today,
I saw weapons that were from Nor
Korea,
weapons that were from Iran and
that were from Russia.
If leaders in Congress
don't understand
that all of these things are con
and that American dismissed
all of our role in any of these
occur encourages more of them,
not fewer of them.
We need to send a very clear mes
by supporting Israel
and supporting Ukraine.
And believe me,
Vladimir Putin is happy
about what's going on here in Is
and in Gaza.
Because he hopes that it will di
certain American leaders who bel
filling the moat
and pulling up
the drawbridge
is the way that America
should conduct itself.
I believe exactly the opposite.
We have to be able
to lead the free world.
It is the price we pay
for being the richest and freest
The world has ever known.
And if we want to remain the ric
and freest country
the world's ever known,
we have to engage with our allie
around the world.
That is always been
the formula
for American success,
both at home and abroad.
And any suggestion to the contra
made by anyone in Congress
or anywhere else in our politica
is damaging America's
standing in the world
and damaging our future for succ